initial draft of PG4K-PGD release notes with doc team's style guide (#5524)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/postgres_distributed_for_kubernetes/1/rel_notes/1_0_rel_notes.mdx

---
title: 'EDB Postgres Distributed for Kubernetes 1.0.0 release notes'
navTitle: "Version 1.0.0"
---

Released: 24 Apr 2024

This is the first major stable release of EDB Postgres Distributed for Kubernetes, a Kubernetes operator to deploy 
and manage EDB Postgres Distributed clusters.

## Highlights of EDB Postgres Distributed for Kubernetes 1.0.0

The operator implements the `PGDGroup` custom resource in the API group `pgd.k8s.enterprisedb.io`. You can use this resource 
to create and manage EDB Postgres Distributed clusters inside Kubernetes with capabilities including:

* Deployment of EDB Postgres Distributed clusters with versions 5 and later.
* Additional self-healing capability on top of that of Postgres Distributed, such as recovery and restart of failed PGD nodes.

> * Definition of the services to connect applications to the write leader of each PGD group.

Author: I'm not sure I understand this sentence, but it might be due to my lack of technical understanding. 
Just wanted to bring that up here in case we can make it clearer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Defined services that allow applications to connect to the write leader of each PGD group.
```
?

!!! Note
The EDB Postgres Distributed for Kubernetes operator leverages 
[EDB Postgres for Kubernetes](https://www.enterprisedb.com/docs/postgres_for_kubernetes/latest/) (PG4K) and inherits many 
of that project's capabilities. EDB Postgres Distributed for Kubernetes version 1.0.0 is based, specifically, on release 1.22 of PG4K. 
Please refer to the [PG4K release notes](https://www.enterprisedb.com/docs/postgres_for_kubernetes/latest/rel_notes/) for more details.

> !!!

Reviewer 2: Not sure what tooling you guys use for warning boxes and the like.
For MkDocs, which CNP dev team uses, the content in the note needs to be indented 4 spaces (lines 21 - 24 in this PR)

Reviewer: We use proper admonitions... we can indent it upstreaming easily enough, but as always I will warn of the dangers of unfenced admonitions (and their weird effects on subsequent text).

## Features

| Component | Description                                                                                  |
|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | PGD4K     | Deployment of EDB Postgres Distributed clusters with versions 5 and later inside Kubernetes. |

Author: @jsilvela not sure if to call the component pgd4k, does it make sense here? 

For comparison, see https://www.enterprisedb.com/docs/pgd/latest/rel_notes/pgd_5.4.0_rel_notes/ where we divide the enhancements per component.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, not against it, but we (CNP dev) don't divide by component. So possibly every update would have PGD4K, which is not wrong...

Author: I think I have been calling it PG4K-PGD, because I have seen it like that in other instances. So it would be good to keep it that way for consistency.

On the other side, PGD4K is shorter and maybe a better alternative for customer-facing docs.
